Write learn web development article on getting jobs (#38626)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn_web_development/getting_started/soft_skills/finding_a_job/index.md

- Your contact details: Include your name, postal address, phone number, email, and any maybe one more contact method that is important to you and suitable for professional communication. A [LinkedIn profile](#create_a_linkedin_profile) is recommended.
- A summary/personal statement, which describes you in a single sentence. This can be really hard to write — it needs to sound confident but not arrogant, positive but realistic. A good strategy here is to keep it really short and focus on some facts, what you believe in, and what kind of level you are at. For example, a good personal statement for a junior web developer might read some something like this: "Bob Smith is a web developer with 2 years' experience and a great passion for semantics, accessibility, and inclusive design".
- A list of work experiences, each including:
  - A date range specifying when you worked there — for example 06/2023–10/2024, or 06/2023–present if you still work there.
  - Company and job title.
  - A short paragraph or bulleted list describing what you did in that job/internship/etc. Don't describe _everything_, just what you think are useful experiences for selling yourself.

> - An education summary, which lists the different qualifications you have, the school you did them at, and the grade you achieved. Definitely include degrees and other higher education, certificates and suchlike that are directly relevant to your field (for example, a web development certification or summer school), and perhaps also regular school qualifications that employers often look for (such as English, other languages, and Math).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An education summary, which lists the different qualifications you have, the school you did them at, and the grade you achieved. Include degrees and other higher education, certificates and achievements that are directly relevant to your field (for example, a web development certification or summer school), and perhaps also regular school qualifications that employers often look for (such as English, other languages, and Math).
```

This should include:

- A nicely-presented landing page to summarize everything.
- A list of websites, apps, and other relevant products that you've worked on. For each one, include a title, thumbnail image, and a description of the project and what you did on it. If you want to say quite a lot about the projects, create a separate page about each one! Include a list of the technologies used to build the project and a link to the source code if you are able to (not all source is open).
- Links to the source code and live demos of your own personal projects and experiments. Each project should include a description of what it does and the technologies used to build it.
- Links to blog posts, writing samples, conference talks, and any other assets you think might help show off your skills.
- A list of contributions you've made to open source projects, stating what the contribution was, how it improved the project, and what technologies were involved. You should include links to the actual changes you made (source code, published documentation, etc.), and a link to the changelog (for example, the GitHub pull request) that proves you did the work.

> Keep your portfolio fairly simple. You want it to be easy to access and look through. Include a few significant items in each section, rather than hundreds of items, otherwise the hiring manager will get bored and move on. A nice clean design will help with the experience, but a complex design might reduce legibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep your portfolio as highlights of your best work. You want it to be easy to access and look through. Include a few significant items in each section, rather than hundreds of items, otherwise the hiring manager will get bored and move on. A nice clean design will help with the experience, but a complex design might reduce legibility.
```

In terms of how to actually publish your portfolio:

- You should [publish your work](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Getting_started/Soft_skills/Collaboration_and_teamwork#publish_your_work) in publicly-viewable places, such as a GitHub organization for source code, and a blogging platform such as medium (or your own website) for blogposts.

> - For source code that is just demos or snippets rather than full websites, publish live versions of the code, so that people can easily check out the live result. See [Publishing your website](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Getting_started/Your_first_website/Publishing_your_website) for tips on how to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For source code that is demos or snippets rather than full websites, publish live versions of the code, so that people can easily check out the live result. See [Publishing your website](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Getting_started/Your_first_website/Publishing_your_website) for tips on how to do this.
```

- In terms of the actual portfolio landing page, you could create a GitHub repo and provide your list of links in a `README.md` file, but this doesn't look particularly great. Much better would be to create a dedicated website to contain your portfolio, with a dedicated [domain name](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Howto/Web_mechanics/What_is_a_domain_name). If you are not great at design work, ask a colleague or friend for some help, perhaps in exchange for doing some coding work for them.

### Create a LinkedIn profile

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/) is one of the most popular sites in the world for people to find jobs, and for employers to find employees. It is a great place to host an online account of your work experience and skills, which is similar to your CV/resumé, but also different.

> LinkedIn has many useful advantages that allow your profile to work well alongside your CV/resumé:
> 
> - You can list your full set of experience and skills on there without making your profile look too long.
> - You can get people to post recommendations.
> - You can link to the profiles of all your past employers, educational institutions, etc.
> - You can write posts on it and use it as a blog.
> - You can actively search for and apply for jobs on it, and get it to send you new job updates based on your skillset and interests.
> - You can connect with contacts to build a network that you can share skills and leads with, which will ultimately help you find jobs.
> - You can take training courses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LinkedIn has many useful advantages that allow your profile to work well alongside your CV/resumé. You can:

- List your full set of experience and skills on there without making your profile look too long.
- Get people to post recommendations.
- Link to the profiles of all your past employers, educational institutions, etc.
- Write posts on it and use it as a blog.
- Actively search for and apply for jobs on it, and get it to send you new job updates based on your skills and interests.
- Connect with contacts to build a network that you can share skills and leads with, which will ultimately help you find jobs.
- Take training courses.
```
